README.md, before:

# moviegeek

The MovieGEEKs is a movie site implemented to accompany my book
["Practical Recommender Systems"](https://www.manning.com/books/practical-recommender-systems).
It is used in the book to show how recommender systems work, and how you can implement them. 

The book is still being written, and so this is still under construction.

# installation guide:

This site is using the [MovieTweetings](https://github.com/sidooms/MovieTweetings) dataset, and uses 
[themoviedb.org](https://www.themoviedb.org) to get poster images. 
A big thanks to both of them for all their work. Please go and visit them. 
 
The dataset is used in the populate_moviegeek script which downloads it and imports the data 
into the database configured in Django. 

## Project Setup
The following is expecting you to have python 3.x installed on your machine. I recommend
 looking that the [Hitchhikers guide to Python](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/) if you 
 haven't.
 
 For windows users it's a good idea to install the Anaconda package. Anaconda is the leading open 
 data science platform powered by Python (according to their homepage) [Anaconda](https://www.continuum.io/downloads)
 
### Download code
```bash
> git clone https://github.com/practical-recommender-systems/moviegeek.git
```
### Create a virtual environment for the project 
Look at the following guide for more details [guide](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/#virtualenvironments-ref)
 
```bash
> cd moviegeek
> virtualenv -p python3 prs
> source prs/bin/activate
```

if you are running Anaconda you can also use conda virtual environment instead.
### Get the required packages

```bash
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### [OPTIONAL] install and use PostGreSQL

## Database setup
Django is setup to run with sqllite3 out of the box, and you can also use that when you run the site. However there are things 
that will be considerable faster if if you install postgres.

#### The database
If you dont have postgres running then you should start out installing it. 
It's a free, and easy to install.

Get it here [postgresql download](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) 
and follow the instructions on the site.

When it install and running, create a database. In the following the database is called moviegeek.
You can do this using the admin tool (pgadmin)


#### The database driver
When the database is spinning its time for the python driver. I recommend using the following 
[http://initd.org/psycopg/](http://initd.org/psycopg/), 

First download the driver, unzip (if zipped) then run
```bash
> python3 setup.py install
```

```bash
> pip3 install psycopg2
```

#### Configuration

To update the database in MovieGEEKS go to in prs_project/settings.py 
and update the following 

```bash
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
        'NAME': 'db_name',                      
        'USER': 'db_user',
        'PASSWORD': 'db_user_password',
        'HOST': '',
        'PORT': 'db_port_number',
    }
}
```
you should update the NAME, USER, PASSWORD, HOST, PORT fields.

### Create the dbs. 
If you have a database running on your machine I would encourage 
you to connect it, by updating the settings in `prs_project/settings.py` (fx like shown above). 

To set up another database is described in the Django docs [here](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/ref/databases/)
```bash
> python3 manage.py makemigrations
> python3 manage.py migrate
```
### Populate the db by running the following script. 
(WARNING: this might take some time.)
(WARNING: If you are using python >3.6 on a Mac then you need to run 
"/Applications/Python\ 3.6/Install\ Certificates.command". More details [here](https://bugs.python.org/issue28150))
```bash
> python3 populate_moviegeek.py
> python3 populate_ratings.py
```

### Create a themoviedb.org id
* go to [https://www.themoviedb.org/account/signup](https://www.themoviedb.org/account/signup) and create an api_key
* create a file in the root of the directory called "`.prs`" and add 
`{ "themoviedb_apikey": <INSERT YOUR APIKEY HERE>}`.
(remember to remove the "<" and ">") 
When you are finished, the file contents should look something like 
```{"themoviedb_apikey": "6d88c9a24b1bc9a60b374d3fe2cd92ac"}```

### Start the web server
 To start the development server run:
```bash
> python3 manage.py runserver 127.0.0.1:8000
```
Running the server like this, will make the website available 
[http://127.0.0.1:8000](http://127.0.0.1:8000) other applications also use this port
so you might need to try out 8001 instead. 

### Closing down.
when you are finished running the project you can:
* Close down the server by pressing <CLTR>-c  
* exit the virtual env:
```bash
> deactivate
```

Commit message:

move to pipenv instead of pip with virtualenv

README.md, after:

# moviegeek

The MovieGEEKs is a movie site implemented to accompany my book
["Practical Recommender Systems"](https://www.manning.com/books/practical-recommender-systems).
It is used in the book to show how recommender systems work, and how you can implement them. 

The book is still being written, and so this is still under construction.

# installation guide:

This site is using the [MovieTweetings](https://github.com/sidooms/MovieTweetings) dataset, and uses 
[themoviedb.org](https://www.themoviedb.org) to get poster images. 
A big thanks to both of them for all their work. Please go and visit them. 
 
The dataset is used in the populate_moviegeek script which downloads it and imports the data 
into the database configured in Django. 

## Project Setup
The following is expecting you to have python 3.x installed on your machine. I recommend
 looking that the [Hitchhikers guide to Python](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/) if you 
 haven't.
 
 For windows users it's a good idea to install the Anaconda package. Anaconda is the leading open 
 data science platform powered by Python (according to their homepage) [Anaconda](https://www.continuum.io/downloads)
 
### Download code
```bash
> git clone https://github.com/practical-recommender-systems/moviegeek.git
```
### Install pipenv
Look at the following docs for more details [pipenv](https://pipenv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
 
```bash
pip3 install pipenv
```

### Get the required packages and start the env shell

```bash
pipenv install
pipenv shell
```

### [OPTIONAL] install and use PostGreSQL

## Database setup
Django is setup to run with sqllite3 out of the box, and you can also use that when you run the site. However there are things 
that will be considerable faster if if you install postgres.

#### The database
If you dont have postgres running then you should start out installing it. 
It's a free, and easy to install.

Get it here [postgresql download](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) 
and follow the instructions on the site.

When it install and running, create a database. In the following the database is called moviegeek.
You can do this using the admin tool (pgadmin)


#### The database driver
When the database is spinning its time for the python driver. I recommend using the following 
[http://initd.org/psycopg/](http://initd.org/psycopg/), 

First download the driver, unzip (if zipped) then run
```bash
> python3 setup.py install
```

```bash
> pip3 install psycopg2
```

#### Configuration

To update the database in MovieGEEKS go to in prs_project/settings.py 
and update the following 

```bash
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
        'NAME': 'db_name',                      
        'USER': 'db_user',
        'PASSWORD': 'db_user_password',
        'HOST': '',
        'PORT': 'db_port_number',
    }
}
```
you should update the NAME, USER, PASSWORD, HOST, PORT fields.

### Create the dbs. 
If you have a database running on your machine I would encourage 
you to connect it, by updating the settings in `prs_project/settings.py` (fx like shown above). 

To set up another database is described in the Django docs [here](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/ref/databases/)
```bash
> python3 manage.py makemigrations
> python3 manage.py migrate
```
### Populate the db by running the following script. 
(WARNING: this might take some time.)
(WARNING: If you are using python >3.6 on a Mac then you need to run 
"/Applications/Python\ 3.6/Install\ Certificates.command". More details [here](https://bugs.python.org/issue28150))
```bash
> python3 populate_moviegeek.py
> python3 populate_ratings.py
```

### Create a themoviedb.org id
* go to [https://www.themoviedb.org/account/signup](https://www.themoviedb.org/account/signup) and create an api_key
* create a file in the root of the directory called "`.prs`" and add 
`{ "themoviedb_apikey": <INSERT YOUR APIKEY HERE>}`.
(remember to remove the "<" and ">") 
When you are finished, the file contents should look something like 
```{"themoviedb_apikey": "6d88c9a24b1bc9a60b374d3fe2cd92ac"}```

### Start the web server
 To start the development server run:
```bash
> python3 manage.py runserver 127.0.0.1:8000
```
Running the server like this, will make the website available 
[http://127.0.0.1:8000](http://127.0.0.1:8000) other applications also use this port
so you might need to try out 8001 instead. 

### Closing down.
when you are finished running the project you can:
* Close down the server by pressing <CLTR>-c  
* exit the virtual env:
```bash
> deactivate
```
